Align collection job with new aggregation job semantics (#596)
ietf-wg-ppm/draft-ietf-ppm-dap: draft-ietf-ppm-dap.md

aggregation parameter is the empty string. For these reasons, the collection
job is handled asynchronously.

Upon receipt of a `CollectionJobReq`, the Leader begins by checking that it
recognizes the task ID in the request path. If not, it MUST abort with error
`unrecognizedTask`.

The Leader MAY further validate the request according to the requirements in
{{batch-validation}} and abort with the indicated error, though some conditions
such as the number of valid reports may not be verifiable while handling the
`CollectionJobReq` message, and the batch will have to be re-validated later on
regardless.

Changing a collection job's parameters is illegal, so further requests to

> `PUT /tasks/{tasks}/collection_jobs/{collection-job-id}` for the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`PUT /tasks/{task-id}/collection_jobs/{collection-job-id}` for the same
```

(not caused by this PR -- aligns with other uses of parameterized URL path fragments)

  reports included in the batch, such that the interval's start and duration are
  both multiples of the task's `time_precision` parameter. Note that in the case
  of a time-interval query (see {{batch-mode}}), this interval can be smaller
  than the one in the corresponding `CollectionJobReq.query`.

* `leader_encrypted_agg_share`: The Leader's aggregate share, encrypted to the
  Collector.

* `helper_encrypted_agg_share`: The Helper's aggregate share, encrypted to the

>   Collector.

Author: I'll bring it to a separate PR.

If the Leader finds the `CollectionJobReq` to be valid, it immediately responds
with HTTP status 201 Created with a body containing a `CollectionJobResp`. The
`status` field is set to `processing`, and the response contains a Location
header containing the relative reference

> `/tasks/{task-id}/collection_jobs/{collection-job-id}`. The Leader SHOULD

Reviewer: Q. What's the justification for including a Location field, here or in the aggregation interaction? In both cases, the URI included in the Location header field is entirely determined by the specification, and the HTTP client has enough information to construct the URI themselves.

Author: The rationale is (unfortunately) subtle.

https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#name-201-created

> The 201 (Created) status code indicates that the request has been fulfilled and has resulted in one or more new resources being created. The primary resource created by the request is identified by either a [Location](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#field.location) header field in the response or, if no [Location](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#field.location) header field is received, by the target URI.
>
> The 201 response content typically describes and links to the resource(s) created. Any validator fields ([Section 8.8](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#response.validator)) sent in the response convey the current validators for a new representation created by the request. Note that the PUT method ([Section 9.3.4](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#PUT)) has additional requirements that might preclude sending such validators.

Consider aggregation: we PUT at `{helper}/tasks/{task-id}/aggregation_jobs/{aggregation-job-id}`, BUT we expect the Leader to poll the job at `{helper}/tasks/{task-id}/aggregation_jobs/{aggregation-job-id}?step=0`. That is, the resource we're polling is at a different URI than the one that was provided in the PUT.

However, this is not true for collection. So I think we can (and should) eschew the Location header for collection. I will edit.

include a Retry-After header field to suggest a polling interval to the
Collector.

> After receiving the response to its `CollectionJobReq`, the Collector makes an
> HTTP GET request to the aforementioned Location to check on the status of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After receiving the response to its `CollectionJobReq`, the Collector periodically makes
HTTP GET requests to the aforementioned Location to check on the status of the
```

I think we should highlight that this is a repeated polling operation -- as currently written, the start of this sentence reads as if only a single HTTP GET is sent.

Reviewer 2: Also, the response might have had status "finished", in which case there's no need to poll?

Author: > Also, the response might have had status "finished", in which case there's no need to poll?

I added a blurb to the paragraph `Once both aggregate shares are successfully obtained`. Let me know if this reads clearer.

aggregation parameter is the empty string. For these reasons, the collection
job is handled asynchronously.

Upon receipt of a `CollectionJobReq`, the Leader begins by checking that it
recognizes the task ID in the request path. If not, it MUST abort with error
`unrecognizedTask`.

The Leader MAY further validate the request according to the requirements in
{{batch-validation}} and abort with the indicated error, though some conditions
such as the number of valid reports may not be verifiable while handling the
`CollectionJobReq` message, and the batch will have to be re-validated later on
regardless.

Changing a collection job's parameters is illegal, so further requests to
`PUT /tasks/{task-id}/collection_jobs/{collection-job-id}` for the same
`collection-job-id` but with a different `CollectionJobReq` in the body MUST

> fail with an HTTP client error status code.

Reviewer 2: Typically we would write something like: "the Leader MUST abort with error blah", where "blah" is an error listed in https://ietf-wg-ppm.github.io/draft-ietf-ppm-dap/draft-ietf-ppm-dap.html#table-1. Why not do the same here?

Author: I think at some point we decided to leave it unspecified what to return in case of conflict. Aggregation is similar in this respect https://ietf-wg-ppm.github.io/draft-ietf-ppm-dap/draft-ietf-ppm-dap.html#section-4.6.1.2-28.

I don't have an immediate opinion on whether we're right to do this or not. Maybe we should, in case a Leader/Collector needs to take special action based on a conflict response (I think in Janus we just immediately abandon the job).

Reviewer 2: Ack, disregard.

~~~ tls-presentation
The Leader responds to `CollectionJobReq`s with a `CollectionJobResp`, which is

> structured as follows:
> ~~~

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
structured as follows:

~~~
```

  reports included in the batch, such that the interval's start and duration are
  both multiples of the task's `time_precision` parameter. Note that in the case
  of a time-interval query (see {{batch-mode}}), this interval can be smaller
  than the one in the corresponding `CollectionJobReq.query`.

* `leader_encrypted_agg_share`: The Leader's aggregate share, encrypted to the
  Collector.

* `helper_encrypted_agg_share`: The Helper's aggregate share, encrypted to the
  Collector.

If the Leader finds the `CollectionJobReq` to be valid, it immediately responds

> with HTTP status 201 Created with a body containing a `CollectionJobResp`. The
> `status` field is set to `processing`. The Leader SHOULD include a Retry-After

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with HTTP status 201 Created with a body containing a `CollectionJobResp` with the
`status` field set to `processing`. The Leader SHOULD include a Retry-After
```

header field to suggest a polling interval to the Collector.

After receiving the response to its `CollectionJobReq`, the Collector

> periodically makes HTTP GET requests to the same collection job URI to check on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
periodically makes HTTP GET requests to `/tasks/{task-id}/collection_jobs/{collection-job-id}` to check on
```

to the Collector.

The Leader then begins working with the Helper to aggregate the reports
satisfying the query (or continues this process, depending on the VDAF) as
described in {{aggregate-flow}}.

The Leader first checks whether it can construct a batch for the
collection job by applying the requirements in {{batch-validation}}. If so, then
the Leader obtains the Helper's aggregate share following the aggregate-share
request flow described in {{collect-aggregate}}. If not, it either aborts the
collection job or tries again later, depending on which requirement in
{{batch-validation}} was not met. If the Leader has a pending aggregation job
that overlaps with the batch and aggregation parameter for the collection job,
the Leader MUST first complete the aggregation job before proceeding and
requesting an aggregate share from the Helper. This avoids a race condition
between aggregation and collection jobs that can yield trivial batch mismatch
errors.

Once both aggregate shares are successfully obtained, the Leader responds to
subsequent HTTP GET requests with the `status` field set to `finished` and the

> `Collection` field populated accordingly. The Collector stops polling once

Reviewer 2: Replace `XXX` with the relevant section (the Leader has the Helper's encrypted agg share and produces its own encrypted agg share)
```suggestion
`Collection` field populated as constructed as specified in {{XXX}}. The Collector stops polling once
```

Author: Sorry, I'm not seeing a section that best fits here. I suppose I can link the reader to the paragraph `The `Collection` structure includes the following` but that's midway through the section. (Maybe this section needs to be broken up a bit?)

Reviewer 2: You're right. Maybe "with the `Collection` field populated with the encrypted aggregate shares".

Author: How does the latest look? I broke up the `tls-presentation` definition into two pieces, so the narrative flows a bit better generally. (i.e. "here's what it looks like when processing, now here's what it looks like when finished")

Reviewer 2: It's better if the definition of `Collection` comes before `CollectionJobResp`, since the latter depends on the former.

Author: > You're right. Maybe "with the Collection field populated with the encrypted aggregate shares".

I went with this.

- AggregationJobContinueReq {{aggregation-leader-continuation}}: "application/dap-aggregation-job-continue-req"
- AggregateShareReq {{collect-flow}}: "application/dap-aggregate-share-req"
- AggregateShare {{collect-flow}}: "application/dap-aggregate-share"
- CollectionJobReq {{collect-flow}}: "application/dap-collection-job-req"

> - CollectionJobResp {{collect-flow}}: "application/dap-collection-job-resp"

Reviewer 2: Likewise here: my preference would be to not change the media type, even if we change the name of the message (which in itself is not a wire breaking change).

Reviewer 2: Ignore this comment (see above)
